---
title:  "Day 17 - 30 days of websiting"
tagline: >
    Why a new website?
intro: >
    I want to change the ratio of consumption and creation. This is my first step.
published: true
date: 2020-02-05
categories: [meta,website]
---

In 2016, I [updated my website](https://2016.benkutil.com) in an effort to get a new job. I also used it as an opportunity to get back into something I enjoyed doing (baking), and [sharing it with others](https://2016.benkutil.com/bread/2016/01/14/getting-started.html). I started working on that website on January 14, 2016. I [wrote three posts](https://2016.benkutil.com/writes/), and put up a portfolio of work. I eventually got a job, and totally forgot about my site.

It’s February 5, 2020. I haven’t written code or baked bread in three years. I haven’t shared anything that I’ve done or learned during that time with people outside of my colleagues and family. I can list many reasons of why that happened. Today, I  start working on my website with some artifical constraints to remove two of those reasons

## Reason 1: _Not enough time_
I have two gaps of time in the day: the time between 5–6&nbsp;A.M., and after 8&nbsp;P.M. In the morning, I like to read, maybe exercise, or fold some laundry. After 8, I used to end up on the couch, watching something. 

To combat this habit, I’ve scheduled 8:30-9&nbsp;P.M. every day to work on this site for the next 30 days. 

## Reason 2: _What can I contribute_
In the context of my day-to-day work, I easily share my thoughts and experience with those around me. In those scenarios, there's a clear problem or opportunity that I can frame questions around or share resources to help someone develop a new skill or grow in their role.

Outside of that, I struggle to find reason to share those same experiences. Who am I to share an opinion in a world of opinions? I get paralized thinking about what is ”new” or ”valuable”.

30 minutes isn’t that much time. I don’t intend to get much done. Over these 30 days, I intend to write about my experience, the work that I've done in the last 4 years, and things I’ve learned. Maybe along the way I’ll remember how to write HTML & CSS. I will use these 30 days to write and publish something, every day, regardless of the subject, scale, and quality.

## Format

It’s been a long time since I’ve done any web development. Each of my posts during these 30 days will include:

- Celebrating my accomplishments.
- What I looked up.
- Things I’ve learned.
- What I’m working on next.

## Accomplishments

1. I successfully wrote this post in Markdown, can commit it to GitHub, and deploy it to a publically available location. It has taken me **17 days** to get to this point. 
2. I successfully updated the SSL certificates to cover year specific subdomains.

## What I looked up today

- [How to store draft posts in Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/#drafts)
- Possibly using GitHub [action workflows](https://github.com/actions/starter-workflows) to handle the current manual build and deploy process 
- If [HTML5 boilerplate](https://h5bp.org) still existed, and what changes they’ve made to their [nginx configs](https://github.com/h5bp/server-configs-nginx), which I currently use on the site.

## Things I’ve learned

1. I still remember the keyboard bindings for tmux.
2. How to request SSL certificates for multiple subdomains at once, using certbot’s [`--webroot` flag](https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#webroot).

## What I’m working on next

1. Setting up automatic deployments
2. Filling out the content outlines I wrote during days 1-16. Posting those.