---
title: Context disconnects
layout: layouts/content.njk
tags: notes
---
There’s the old maxim, “_[Context is king](https://linguistics.stackexchange.com/questions/36873/what-is-meant-by-the-maxim-context-is-king)_“. It struck me that how teams navigate context changes over time. I think there’s a gravity that pulls teams towards a high context culture. 

As a team first forms, there’s intentional effort to communicate in a low context manner. These [low context](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=File:Wikimania_2018_-_Communicate_effectively_-_low_context_high_context_-_dmenard.pdf&page=12) conversations use explicit details, include relevant information in the communication, and are easier for new people to enter.

As a team works together, they can shortcut communication by relying on their shared understanding of the domain. These [high context](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=File:Wikimania_2018_-_Communicate_effectively_-_low_context_high_context_-_dmenard.pdf&page=13) conversations uses implicit details, assumes a common understanding, and is difficult to enter without the status and history of those communicating. 

A simple example that I experience almost every day: _acronyms_. A team may intentionally start by expanding all acronyms. Over time, that practice fades away, or new acronyms get created. bonding. A shared language that only people on the team know! It’s a form of team bonding or in-culture.

To combat this issue, people could look to APIs. API's structure communication into and out of a system. They represent a great model for low context communication. They have a defined structure, define explicit detail, and even include relevant information ([JSON-LD](https://json-ld.org)). 

For people setting up or leading teams, consider the "low context" APIs you’d develop that will bring information in and out of a team. Much like system APIs, it’ll increase the use and usefulness of the team.