
GSA TTS has a product market fit problem. We often talk about the adoption of product management concepts and private sector, and the role they play in government services. We need to have that same conversation about the products and services developed by GSA, TTS, and their role in government.

The product roadmap over the last X years has not taken into account the environment and constraints of the US government market. This is inclusive of both federal and state markets.

If we look back at successes from TTS, and model that to current efforts, there is a pathway where TTS is successful as a product development organization within the US government.

In particular, TTS could look further back in technology, adoption processes, and apply those principles and forces to successfully achieve its goal as a shared services organization within the government.

In technology adoption, there are typically five segments of adopters. This adoption curve model describes where people are from a willingness to adapt, created by Jeffrey a more the model is helpful in considering the different sets of motivations and behaviors of those audience segments. Understanding those concepts are an important element to find product market fit.

Further back in history, and it, and looking at technology more broadly, there is another model that helps describe how these particular audiences adapt technology. Discussed in Jared, diamond's book, germs, guns and steel, this model presents for forces that influence adoption. He also outlines two methods for adoption, I believe the patterns and model outlined in diamond's book offer relevant guidance as TTS continues at school of driving shared service adoption across the government.

Diamond's 4 forces on technology adoption
https://fourweekmba.com/technology-adoption-curve/

Diamond's 2 methods of technology adoption
Diffusion
Blueprints

How Diamond's 4 forces apply to shared service adoption, using Login.gov as an example.
One. A relative economic advantage with existing technology: I believe this represents the least impactful force on technology adoption.
within this force, there are two main components, economic advantage, and existing technology in government. There is a huge inertia to existing technology, federal and state agencies have IT systems that have existed for multiple decades, the challenge for technology adoption across the markets is being able to show from a that there system offers features and benefits that offer realizable differences in the economics of government services. This is different from the economics of private sector businesses. This could be a whole blog post an article in and of itself, but economic advantages of cost or profit are not relevant in government. Another challenge of economic advantage is that every agency thinks they have unique problems, that cannot be solved from solutions developed for another agency or outside of that agency. One economic factor that is relevant is risk or public perception and the risk public perception Hass in developing a shared service. TTS needs to show that their systems are demonstrably better than existing systems when it comes to the economy of building those systems,. Using login.gov as an example let's explore this concept, many federal and state agencies already have existing technologies for creating verifying and maintaining an account. There is a little economic advantage for them to switch to login.gov. They would still be paying a vendor for their technology. They would still need to maintain their existing support infrastructures for their systems. And those support infrastructures would still maintain account specific traffic even in the adoption of login.gov. In addition, there is the economic disadvantage of needing to invest time and resources in integrating login.gov to these existing systems. That economic disadvantage would not be overcome over time. In addition, the perceived economic advantage of having one login used across all government services, cannot be fully realized until all government services use a tool use a single tool. This is a chicken and the egg problem that like login.gov should solve in other ways.

As a product, login.gov has one economic advantage over existing systems and competitors: the ability to leverage federal and state infrastructure for verifying peoples identity, and keeping that identity and the data used to verify it out of the hands of commercial interests. We see that today being explored and using US postal services for in person identity identity verification. However, that would've been an exit an economic advantage five years ago, when login.gov first started. Today, private companies have overcome that economic advantage, by offering remote identity proofing experiences.

As it stands today, login.gov does not offer an economic advantage over existing technologies. The same is true for TTS is cloud.com, offerings, and their experiments in qualitative feedback, gathering, and text outreach systems.

Two. Social, valued, and prestige: I believe social value and prestige represents one of the strongest forces in government shared service adoption. If you think about the rewards, and instead of systems for government employees that make decisions about technology adoption, one of the strongest incentives is social value and prestige. Government has a plethora of award, shows, recognition, and other ways to show recognition to government employees. That recognition goes on to lead to future opportunities for that person, either in government or private sector life. Also, when you consider an incentive structure based around three concepts, pay, recognition, and internal satisfaction, recognition is one of the strongest lovers, a government ploy he has the challenge with all shared services, is that currently there's very little social value or prestige associated with adopting them. For example, there is more social value and prestige perceived in creating some thing yourself, as opposed to adopting an already developed solution. Each agency also has unique value and prestige components to it that need to be individually addressed when thinking about adoption within that agency. Using login.gov as an example, there was, in addition to know economic advantage early in the life of wagon.gov. There was no social value or prestige in adopting it at the agency. Specifically because it was a problem solved by someone else. Now the White House through its executive orders has elevated the social prestige of adopting login.gov. This may help increase the adoption of the system, but it still faces other challenges going forward.

Compatibility with vested interests
